# Hackathon
Code off duty 
Problem Statement No 20
Topic - Education ecosystem for specially abled student need provision and improvement to take care of compliance, governance and conduct.
Technology Bucket -Smart Education
Category- software
Description -Children with disabilities in minor or major forms for any of the physical organs or mentally unstable children are considered to be specially-abled ones and to help them absorb the natural flow of life, we need to consider and provide them with a supportive and growing environment where they are able to live and grow. In the educational ecosystem, the needs of such an environment need to be catered according to the category of ailments that exist in the students and provisions need to be made in order to make them feel special, and cared for and set the right mindset while they grow. There are very few educational institutes in India, that accept specially-abled students in regular streams making them feel one among natural children. The first and foremost need is to comply with the Disability Act provisions in the Indian education ecosystem and have the right provisions such as physical infrastructure, digital interaction pathways and the right tooling to make this happen in a much larger portion of the Indian education industry. This problem statement hovers more around the lack of the right system and governance in the Indian Education industry and also has to deal with Disability students' intake, progress and outgo after the education completion. The State Education Report for India 2019: Children with Disabilities by UNESCO states that 27% of disabled children between the age of 5-19 years don't have access to education. It also says that nearly 3/4th of 5 years old specially-abled are left out of the education system, further revealing that this ratio varies gender-wise and girls tend to show in high numbers when it comes to depriving education. As per WHO report, over 1 billion people in the world are specially abled contributing to 15% of the total population and WHODAS 2.0 accessibility standards define means of assessing the disability in an individual, which ponder on a lot of aspects such as, it has been felt that differently-abled persons need special arrangements in the environment for their mobility and independent functioning. It is also a fact that many institutes have architectural barriers that disabled persons find difficult for their day-to-day functioning. The colleges are expected to address accessibility-related issues as per the stipulations of the Persons with Disabilities Act 1995 and ensure that all existing structures as well as future construction projects in their campuses are made disabled-friendly. The institutes should create special facilities such as ramps, rails and special toilets, and make other necessary changes to suit the special needs of differently-abled persons. The construction plans should clearly address the accessibility issues pertaining to disability. Guidelines on accessibility are laid out by the office of the Chief Commissioner of Disabilities. Consciously improving Education for specially-abled children will need planned efforts with the help of technology and human power. This makes the problem statement quite challenging and critical to be addressed the special compliance and governance needs. This problem statement needs holistic solutions that may be hybrid in nature. The objective of this problem statement in one way could be the right implementation of the Disability Act and the provisioning of digital infrastructure and applications to address the needs and feedback mechanisms. Facilitate admission of differently-abled persons in various courses, provide guidance and counselling to differently-abled individuals, Create awareness about the needs of differently-abled persons, and other general issues concerning their learning. Assist differently-abled graduates to gain successful employment in the public as well as private sectors, designing special interaction gateways for such children and helping them feel natural while growing is important. Further, the objective is to come up with ways and means to make meaningful digital application/s that can use this information and generate knowledge, spread massive awareness, and support the intake and management of specially-abled children into the educational ecosystem. The objective of this problem statement solution is also to come up with innovative solutions which may use digital and physical mediums together to make sure disabled persons are able to access and operate these applications. The solution may use technologies like Artificial intelligence, machine learning and internet of things and blockchain to ensure specially-abled children are given the right systems to get into the mainstream of education, sustain with growth aspects and be placed well after their education is completed. It is all about following laws and legal procedures to comply with the Disability Act and make sure the system is governed well for specially-abled people's needs in their complete education lifecycle.
